# 🧭 [Lesson 2: God Alone](../README.md)

## 🧩 God is completely independent of everything and everyone

God doesn't even need anyone to teach Him.

- He knows everything: He has all knowledge.

- He is aware of everything.

## 📖 READ – Psalm 147:5

*Great is our Lord, and abundant in power; **his understanding is beyond measure.***

The amount God knows is so great, it is beyond even being able to measure!

## 📖 READ – Romans 11:33, 34

*Oh, the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable his judgments, and his paths beyond tracing out! “Who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor?*

|                God                |     |                      – vs – man                       |
| :-------------------------------: | :-: | :---------------------------------------------------: |
|  God has no beginning and no end  |     |                 man is born and dies                  |
| God is a Trinity of three persons |     |                man is only one person                 |
|         God needs nothing         |     | man needs food, water air, sleep, light, & protection |
|     **God knows everything**      |     |              **man needs to be taught**               |

What about us?

- Could we have been born to the world without parents?

  Could we have survived as babies without care?

  Could we have learned to read and write without someone to teach us?

- What about our bodies?

  How long could we live without food and water? *Only a few days or perhaps a week without water!*

  How long could we live without oxygen? *Only a few minutes.*
  How long can we live without sleep? *Around 11 days.*

  How long could we survive without protection against the sun’s ultraviolet rays?
  - 🔎 Example: *Astronauts wear special suits when they leave the protection of the earth’s atmosphere. If they weren’t protected, they would die immediately from lack of oxygen and from exposure to the sun’s ultraviolet rays.*

  - In order to live, we must have food, water, sleep, oxygen, and protection from ultraviolet rays, cold, heat, and many other things; and we must be taught everything.

  - But God does not need anything or any person!

---

👉 [Go ahead to page 8](./page-08.md)
